docs/user/sbt.rst, before:

.. _sbt:

Building projects with sbt
==========================

If you have reached this section you probably have a system that is now able to compile and run Scala Native programs.

Minimal sbt project
-------------------

Start within a new folder, and create a file ``project/plugins.sbt`` as follows::

    addSbtPlugin("org.scala-native" % "sbt-scala-native"  % "0.1.0")

Create a file ``project/build.properties`` to define the sbt version as follows::

    sbt.version = 0.13.13

define a new ``build.sbt``::

    enablePlugins(ScalaNativePlugin)

    scalaVersion := "2.11.8"

and now you can write your first application in ``./src/main/scala/HelloWorld.scala``:

.. code-block:: scala

    package example

    object Main {
      def main(args: Array[String]): Unit =
        println("Hello, world!")
    }

now simply run ``sbt run`` to get everything compiled and have the expected output!

Sbt settings and tasks
----------------------

===== ======================== =============== =========================================================
Since Name                     Type            Description
===== ======================== =============== =========================================================
0.1   ``compile``              ``Analysis``    Compile Scala code to NIR
0.1   ``run``                  ``Unit``        Compile, link and run the generated binary
0.1   ``package``              ``File``        Similar to standard package with addition of NIR
0.1   ``publish``              ``Unit``        Similar to standard publish with addition of NIR (1)
0.1   ``nativeLink``           ``File``        Link NIR and generate native binary
0.1   ``nativeClang``          ``File``        Path to ``clang`` command
0.1   ``nativeClangPP``        ``File``        Path to ``clang++`` command
0.1   ``nativeCompileOptions`` ``Seq[String]`` Extra options passed to clang verbatim during compilation
0.1   ``nativeLinkingOptions`` ``Seq[String]`` Extra options passed to clang verbatim during linking
0.1   ``nativeMode``           ``String``      Either ``"debug"`` or ``"release"`` (2)
0.2   ``nativeGC``             ``String``      Either ``"none"`` or ``"boehm"`` (3)
===== ======================== =============== =========================================================

1. See `Publishing`_ and `Cross compilation`_ for details.
2. See `Compilation modes`_ for details.
3. See `Garbage collectors`_ for details.

Compilation modes
-----------------

Scala Native supports two distinct linking modes:

1. **debug.** (default)

   Default mode. Optimized for shortest compilation time. Runs fewer
   optimizations and is much more suited for iterative development workflow.
   Similar to clang's ``-O0``.

2. **release.**

   Optimized for best runtime performance at expense of longer compilation time.
   Similar to clang's ``-O2`` with addition of link-time optimization over
   the whole application code.

Garbage collectors
------------------

1. **boehm.** (default)

   Conservative generational garbage collector. More information is available
   at the `project's page <https://www.hboehm.info/gc/>`_.

1. **none.**

   Garbage collector that allocates things without ever freeing them. Useful
   for short-running command-line applications or applications where garbage
   collections pauses are not acceptable.

Publishing
----------

Scala Native supports sbt's standard workflow for the package distribution:

1. Compile your code.
2. Generate a jar with all of the class files and NIR files.
3. Publish the jar to `sonatype`_, `bintray`_ or any other 3rd party hosting service.

Once the jar has been published, it can be resolved through sbt's standard
package resolution system.

.. _sonatype: https://github.com/xerial/sbt-sonatype
.. _bintray: https://github.com/sbt/sbt-bintray

Cross compilation
-----------------

`sbt-crossproject <https://github.com/scala-native/sbt-crossproject>`_ is an
sbt plugin that lets you cross-compile your projects against all three major
platforms in Scala: JVM, JavaScript via Scala.js and native via Scala Native.
It's based on the original cross-project idea from Scala.js and supports the
same syntax for existing JVM/JavaScript cross-projects. Please refer to project's
`README <https://github.com/scala-native/sbt-crossproject/blob/master/README.md>`_
for details.

Continue to :ref:`lang`.

Commit message:

Include CFLAGS and LDFLAGS as part of the compiler and linker options
CFLAGS and LDFLAGS are the standard environment variables used for
configuring the C compilation toolchain when using Make. Include the
flags as part of the compiler and linker options so users can more
easily configure from where to read include files etc.

docs/user/sbt.rst, after:

.. _sbt:

Building projects with sbt
==========================

If you have reached this section you probably have a system that is now able to compile and run Scala Native programs.

Minimal sbt project
-------------------

Start within a new folder, and create a file ``project/plugins.sbt`` as follows::

    addSbtPlugin("org.scala-native" % "sbt-scala-native"  % "0.1.0")

Create a file ``project/build.properties`` to define the sbt version as follows::

    sbt.version = 0.13.13

define a new ``build.sbt``::

    enablePlugins(ScalaNativePlugin)

    scalaVersion := "2.11.8"

and now you can write your first application in ``./src/main/scala/HelloWorld.scala``:

.. code-block:: scala

    package example

    object Main {
      def main(args: Array[String]): Unit =
        println("Hello, world!")
    }

now simply run ``sbt run`` to get everything compiled and have the expected output!

Sbt settings and tasks
----------------------

===== ======================== =============== =========================================================
Since Name                     Type            Description
===== ======================== =============== =========================================================
0.1   ``compile``              ``Analysis``    Compile Scala code to NIR
0.1   ``run``                  ``Unit``        Compile, link and run the generated binary
0.1   ``package``              ``File``        Similar to standard package with addition of NIR
0.1   ``publish``              ``Unit``        Similar to standard publish with addition of NIR (1)
0.1   ``nativeLink``           ``File``        Link NIR and generate native binary
0.1   ``nativeClang``          ``File``        Path to ``clang`` command
0.1   ``nativeClangPP``        ``File``        Path to ``clang++`` command
0.1   ``nativeCompileOptions`` ``Seq[String]`` Extra options passed to clang verbatim during compilation (2)
0.1   ``nativeLinkingOptions`` ``Seq[String]`` Extra options passed to clang verbatim during linking (2)
0.1   ``nativeMode``           ``String``      Either ``"debug"`` or ``"release"`` (3)
0.2   ``nativeGC``             ``String``      Either ``"none"`` or ``"boehm"`` (4)
===== ======================== =============== =========================================================

1. See `Publishing`_ and `Cross compilation`_ for details.
2. See `Compile and linking options`_ for details.
3. See `Compilation modes`_ for details.
4. See `Garbage collectors`_ for details.

Compile and linking options
---------------------------

By default ``/usr/local/include`` as well as directories listed by ``llvm-config
--includedir`` are added to the search path for include files. Similarly, by
default ``/usr/local/lib`` as well as directories listed by ``llvm-config
--includedir`` are added to the search path for library files. 

In addition, ``CFLAGS`` and ``LDFLAGS`` which are commonly used to by ``make``,
are automatically included in ``nativeCompileOptions`` and
``nativeLinkingOptions`` respectively.

If for example you have installed a library to ``$HOME``, add the following to
your shell environment to automatically use those libraries from Scala Native::

    export CFLAGS="$CFLAGS -I$HOME/include"
    export LDFLAGS="$LDFLAGS -L$HOME/include"

Compilation modes
-----------------

Scala Native supports two distinct linking modes:

1. **debug.** (default)

   Default mode. Optimized for shortest compilation time. Runs fewer
   optimizations and is much more suited for iterative development workflow.
   Similar to clang's ``-O0``.

2. **release.**

   Optimized for best runtime performance at expense of longer compilation time.
   Similar to clang's ``-O2`` with addition of link-time optimization over
   the whole application code.

Garbage collectors
------------------

1. **boehm.** (default)

   Conservative generational garbage collector. More information is available
   at the `project's page <https://www.hboehm.info/gc/>`_.

1. **none.**

   Garbage collector that allocates things without ever freeing them. Useful
   for short-running command-line applications or applications where garbage
   collections pauses are not acceptable.

Publishing
----------

Scala Native supports sbt's standard workflow for the package distribution:

1. Compile your code.
2. Generate a jar with all of the class files and NIR files.
3. Publish the jar to `sonatype`_, `bintray`_ or any other 3rd party hosting service.

Once the jar has been published, it can be resolved through sbt's standard
package resolution system.

.. _sonatype: https://github.com/xerial/sbt-sonatype
.. _bintray: https://github.com/sbt/sbt-bintray

Cross compilation
-----------------

`sbt-crossproject <https://github.com/scala-native/sbt-crossproject>`_ is an
sbt plugin that lets you cross-compile your projects against all three major
platforms in Scala: JVM, JavaScript via Scala.js and native via Scala Native.
It's based on the original cross-project idea from Scala.js and supports the
same syntax for existing JVM/JavaScript cross-projects. Please refer to the project's
`README <https://github.com/scala-native/sbt-crossproject/blob/master/README.md>`_
for details.

Continue to :ref:`lang`.
